+++
title = "Feast as a Feature Store"
description = "Overview of Feast's feature store components"
weight = 10
                    
+++

{{% alpha-status 
  feedbacklink="https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/issues" %}}
  
Use [Feast](http://feast.dev/) for defining, managing, discovering, validating, and serving features to your models during training and inference.


[Feast](http://feast.dev/) is an [open-source](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast) feature store that helps teams operate ML systems at scale by allowing them to define, manage, validate, and serve features to models in production. 

Feast provides the following functionality:

* __Load streaming and batch data__: Feast is built to be able to ingest data from a variety of bounded or unbounded sources. Feast allows users to ingest data from streams, object stores, databases, or notebooks. Data that is ingested into Feast is persisted in both online store and historical stores, which in turn is used for the creation of training datasets and serving features to online systems.

* __Standardized definitions__: Feast becomes the single source of truth for all feature definitions and data within an organization. Teams are able to capture documentation, metadata, and metrics about features. This allows teams to communicate clearly about features, test feature data, and determine if a feature is both safe and relevant to their use cases. 

* __Historical serving__: Features that are persisted in Feast can be retrieved through its feature serving APIs to produce training datasets. Feast is able to produce massive training datasets that are agnostics of the data source that was used to ingest the data originally. Feast is also able to ensure point-in-time correctness when joining these data sources, which in turn ensures the quality and consistency of features reaching models.

* __Online serving__: Feast exposes low latency serving APIs for all data that has been ingested into the system. This allows all production ML systems to use Feast as the primary data source when looking up real-time features.

* __Consistency between training and serving__: Feast provides a consistent view of feature data through the use of a unified ingestion layer, unified serving API and canonical feature references. By building ML systems on feature references, teams abstract away the underlying data infrastructure and make it possible to safely move models between training and serving without a drop in data consistency.
 
* __Feature sharing and reuse__: Feast provides a discovery and metadata API that allows teams to track, share, and reuse features across projects. Feast also decouples the process of creating features from the process of consumption, meaning teams that start new projects can begin by simply consuming features that already exist in the store, instead of starting from scratch. 

* __Statistics and validation__: Feast allows for the generation of statistics based on features within the systems. Feast has compatibility with TFDV, meaning statistics that are generated by Feast can be validated using TFDV. Feast also allows teams to capture TFDV schemas as part of feature definitions, allowing domain experts to define data properties that can be used for validating these features in other production settings like training, ingestion, or serving.

## Next steps

Please follow the [Getting Started with Feast](/docs/external-add-ons/feature-store/getting-started/) guide to set up Feast and run walk through our tutorials.

## Resources

* [Feast: Documentation](http://docs.feast.dev/)
* [Feast: Source Code](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast)
* [Google Cloud - Introducing Feast: An open source feature store for machine learning](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/ai-machine-learning/introducing-feast-an-open-source-feature-store-for-machine-learning)
* [Medium - Feast: Bridging ML Models and Data](https://blog.gojekengineering.com/feast-bridging-ml-models-and-data-efd06b7d1644)